# Cloud Front

- is a web service to speed up your static or dynamic websites through aws edge location 

- deliver your content to worldwide network 

- When end-user request to your content that is connected with cloud front so it will redirect to edge location where cache data is resident. Due to this you client will experience less latency to accessing you content

- if data is not in the edge so it will retrieve data from aws ec2 instance or s3. First user can get delay but other users will get data fast

- you can do read, write and delete and also add task on cloud front

- Objects are cached for the life of TTL(**TIME TO LIVE**)

- 

  

## CDN(content delivery network)

- it  is a system of distributed servers that deliver content of your website on the user location 

## Three components of cloud front

- **edge location** means where our cache will be stored like Canada, Asia pacific etc

- **origin** This is origin of all files that will be distributed to different edge locations like S3, ec2 instance

- **Distribution** is the name given by CDN which consist of edge locations

  

## Two methods for content

- **Web** is used to deliver the content of your static or dynamic web page. It used http and https. You can add, edit and delete operation on edge location
- **RTMP** is used for live streaming videos like flash video servers

# Storage Gateway

- is a service that connect an on-premises software appliance  with cloud base storage with secure method. This method is scalable and cost-effective. Through this you upload or get data with security 

- AWS Storage Gateway is appliance or it is like an image that you install on your host. it support VM Ware  and Microsoft hyper-visor and can be ec2 instance

- ### TYPES OF STORAGE GATEWAY

  -  **File Gateway** For flat files, stored directly on s3
  - **Tape Gateway** Use for backup and uses popular backup applications like Net backup , Backup exec and Veeam
  - **Volume Gateway** 
    - **Stored Gateway** Entire Dataset onsite and asynchronous backed on S3
    - **Cached Gateway**  Entire Dataset on S3 and most infrequently data is cached on site.

